README.md, before:

# Memfault iOS SDK

## Integration Guide

### Adding Memfault.framework to your project

#### CocoaPods

In case you are using CocoaPods, you can add `Memfault` as a dependency to your
`Podfile`:

```
target 'MyApp' do
  pod 'Memfault'
end
```

It's probably a good idea to specify the version to use. See the [Podfile
documentation] for more information.

After adding the new dependency, run `pod install` inside your terminal, or from
CocoaPods.app.

#### Carthage

> TODO

#### Without dependency manager

To use `Memfault.framework` without using a dependency manager such as
CocoaPods, just clone this repo and drag `Memfault.framework` into your project.
Make sure to link the framework to your target: Select the Project > Select your
app target > Build Phases > Link Binary With Libraries > Add
`Memfault.framework` in case it has not been added there.

### Initialization

The Memfault class is the "entrypoint" to the SDK. It is recommended to create
only one Memfault instance and use it across your entire application.

When creating the instance, you will need to pass in a configuration dictionary.
The Project API Key is the only mandatory piece of configuration. To find your
Project API Key, log in to https://app.memfault.com/ and navigate to Settings.

You also need to pass in a dispatch queue. This queue will be used to execute
asynchronous calls, such as delegate method calls.

It's likely you will also need to configure the "device management" key to use.
This key is used to allow the mobile SDK to authenticate to devices it connects
to and enter "device management mode". Certain operations, such as Over The Air
Updates require device management mode to be entered first. For more information
on how to generate the key data, check out the `cli/mflt_utils.py` tool that is
included in the firmware SDK.

```swift
import Memfault

let DevMgmtKeyBytes = [
    // See mflt_utils.py tool to generate this code ...
] as [UInt8]

let memfault: Memfault = Memfault.init([
        kMFLTApiKey: "8badf00d8badf00d8badf00d8badf00d",
        kMFLTDeviceManagementPrivateKey: NSData(bytes: DevMgmtKeyBytes, length: DevMgmtKeyBytes.count),
        ], queue:queue)
```

### Getting a device object

Most of Memfault's iOS SDK its functionality is exposed as methods on device
objects ( `MemfaultBluetoothDevice`). Most likely, your app already knows how to
find (scan for) the devices that your app works with. Therefore, you will likely
have a CoreBluetooth `CBPeripheral` instance in your application that represents
the device to connect to. The Memfault object has a
`.device(fromPeripheralIdentifier:)` method to derive a device object from the
identifier of the peripheral:

```swift
let peripheral: CBPeripheral = ...
let device: MemfaultBluetoothDevice =
    memfault.device(fromPeripheralIdentifier: peripheral.identifier)
```

### Over The Air (OTA) Updates

One of the features of the Memfault SDK is updating software over the air, using
Bluetooth. There are a couple simple steps to get Memfault OTA integrated in
your app:

#### 1. Checking for updates

Once you have the device object, you can check to see whether there's a new
update for this particular device:

```swift
device.check { (package, error) in
    if error != nil {
        // There was an error, handle it here.
        return
    }
    if package == nil {
        // Device is up to date, nothing to do!
        return
    }
    // There's a new software package
}

```

#### 2. Perform OTA

Triggering the actual update process itself is done using the
`.performOta(package)` method:

```swift
device.check { (package, error) in
    // ... error & up-to-date checks here (see previous section) ...

    device.performOta(package)
}
```

#### 3. Monitoring progress and state changes

By implementing the `MemfaultOtaDelegate` protocol, you can monitor the progress
of the OTA update. These are the delegate methods you can implement:

```swift
// Required:
func otaStateDidChange(_ device: MemfaultBluetoothDevice, state: MemfaultOtaState)

// Optional:
func otaProgressDidChange(_ device: MemfaultBluetoothDevice, progress: Double)
func otaFailed(_ device: MemfaultBluetoothDevice, error: Error)
```

Point the `.otaDelegate` property on the device object to your delegate object
to receive callbacks to these delegate methods:

```swift
device.otaDelegate = self
```

### Draining Metric Events

When using Memfault's Metrics firmware APIs (i.e. `memfault_metrics_create()`),
the recorded data will have to be pulled from the device and forwarded to
Memfault's web services regularly. The SDK will not do this automatically, but
instead leaves it up to you to decide when it is a good moment to poll.
Triggering it is simple:

```swift
device.readMetrics { (error) in
    if error != nil {
        // There was an error, handle it here.
        return
    }
    // Metrics (if any) have successfully been collected from the device and sent to Memfault's web services.
}
```

### Draining Coredumps

When using Memfault's Coredump firmware SDK functionality, captured coredumps
will have to be pulled from the device and forwarded to Memfault's web services
regularly. The SDK will not do this automatically, but instead leaves it up to
you to decide when it is a good moment to poll. Triggering it is simple:

```swift
device.readCoredumps { (error) in
    if error != nil {
        // There was an error, handle it here.
        return
    }
    // Coredumps (if any) have successfully been collected from the device and sent to Memfault's web services.
}
```

### Changelog

See [CHANGELOG.md] file.

[changelog.md]: CHANGELOG.md
[podfile documentation]: https://guides.cocoapods.org/syntax/podfile.html#pod

Commit message:

Add note about archiving the repo

README.md, after:

_This repo has been archived and set to read-only. If you are looking for the
Memfault iOS Cloud library for uploading device chunks, check it out here:_
https://github.com/memfault/memfault-ios-cloud

---

# Memfault iOS SDK

## Integration Guide

### Adding Memfault.framework to your project

#### CocoaPods

In case you are using CocoaPods, you can add `Memfault` as a dependency to your
`Podfile`:

```
target 'MyApp' do
  pod 'Memfault'
end
```

It's probably a good idea to specify the version to use. See the [Podfile
documentation] for more information.

After adding the new dependency, run `pod install` inside your terminal, or from
CocoaPods.app.

#### Carthage

> TODO

#### Without dependency manager

To use `Memfault.framework` without using a dependency manager such as
CocoaPods, just clone this repo and drag `Memfault.framework` into your project.
Make sure to link the framework to your target: Select the Project > Select your
app target > Build Phases > Link Binary With Libraries > Add
`Memfault.framework` in case it has not been added there.

### Initialization

The Memfault class is the "entrypoint" to the SDK. It is recommended to create
only one Memfault instance and use it across your entire application.

When creating the instance, you will need to pass in a configuration dictionary.
The Project API Key is the only mandatory piece of configuration. To find your
Project API Key, log in to https://app.memfault.com/ and navigate to Settings.

You also need to pass in a dispatch queue. This queue will be used to execute
asynchronous calls, such as delegate method calls.

It's likely you will also need to configure the "device management" key to use.
This key is used to allow the mobile SDK to authenticate to devices it connects
to and enter "device management mode". Certain operations, such as Over The Air
Updates require device management mode to be entered first. For more information
on how to generate the key data, check out the `cli/mflt_utils.py` tool that is
included in the firmware SDK.

```swift
import Memfault

let DevMgmtKeyBytes = [
    // See mflt_utils.py tool to generate this code ...
] as [UInt8]

let memfault: Memfault = Memfault.init([
        kMFLTApiKey: "8badf00d8badf00d8badf00d8badf00d",
        kMFLTDeviceManagementPrivateKey: NSData(bytes: DevMgmtKeyBytes, length: DevMgmtKeyBytes.count),
        ], queue:queue)
```

### Getting a device object

Most of Memfault's iOS SDK its functionality is exposed as methods on device
objects ( `MemfaultBluetoothDevice`). Most likely, your app already knows how to
find (scan for) the devices that your app works with. Therefore, you will likely
have a CoreBluetooth `CBPeripheral` instance in your application that represents
the device to connect to. The Memfault object has a
`.device(fromPeripheralIdentifier:)` method to derive a device object from the
identifier of the peripheral:

```swift
let peripheral: CBPeripheral = ...
let device: MemfaultBluetoothDevice =
    memfault.device(fromPeripheralIdentifier: peripheral.identifier)
```

### Over The Air (OTA) Updates

One of the features of the Memfault SDK is updating software over the air, using
Bluetooth. There are a couple simple steps to get Memfault OTA integrated in
your app:

#### 1. Checking for updates

Once you have the device object, you can check to see whether there's a new
update for this particular device:

```swift
device.check { (package, error) in
    if error != nil {
        // There was an error, handle it here.
        return
    }
    if package == nil {
        // Device is up to date, nothing to do!
        return
    }
    // There's a new software package
}

```

#### 2. Perform OTA

Triggering the actual update process itself is done using the
`.performOta(package)` method:

```swift
device.check { (package, error) in
    // ... error & up-to-date checks here (see previous section) ...

    device.performOta(package)
}
```

#### 3. Monitoring progress and state changes

By implementing the `MemfaultOtaDelegate` protocol, you can monitor the progress
of the OTA update. These are the delegate methods you can implement:

```swift
// Required:
func otaStateDidChange(_ device: MemfaultBluetoothDevice, state: MemfaultOtaState)

// Optional:
func otaProgressDidChange(_ device: MemfaultBluetoothDevice, progress: Double)
func otaFailed(_ device: MemfaultBluetoothDevice, error: Error)
```

Point the `.otaDelegate` property on the device object to your delegate object
to receive callbacks to these delegate methods:

```swift
device.otaDelegate = self
```

### Draining Metric Events

When using Memfault's Metrics firmware APIs (i.e. `memfault_metrics_create()`),
the recorded data will have to be pulled from the device and forwarded to
Memfault's web services regularly. The SDK will not do this automatically, but
instead leaves it up to you to decide when it is a good moment to poll.
Triggering it is simple:

```swift
device.readMetrics { (error) in
    if error != nil {
        // There was an error, handle it here.
        return
    }
    // Metrics (if any) have successfully been collected from the device and sent to Memfault's web services.
}
```

### Draining Coredumps

When using Memfault's Coredump firmware SDK functionality, captured coredumps
will have to be pulled from the device and forwarded to Memfault's web services
regularly. The SDK will not do this automatically, but instead leaves it up to
you to decide when it is a good moment to poll. Triggering it is simple:

```swift
device.readCoredumps { (error) in
    if error != nil {
        // There was an error, handle it here.
        return
    }
    // Coredumps (if any) have successfully been collected from the device and sent to Memfault's web services.
}
```

### Changelog

See [CHANGELOG.md] file.

[changelog.md]: CHANGELOG.md
[podfile documentation]: https://guides.cocoapods.org/syntax/podfile.html#pod
